The Celebrated Novel
of the Century

THE only truly great novel to come out of post-revolutionary Russia significantly appears first in translation, without the approval of the Russian
 Communist Party censors. But this sensational aspect should not obscure the fact that Doctor Zhivago is above all a stupendously rich and moving book. Like War and Peace, it evokes
 an historically crucial period in terms of a large variety of characters whose destinies are interwoven—railwaymen, farmers, intellectuals, merchants, lawyers, professors, students,
 soldiers, the well-to-do and the destitute.
   Zhivago, a physician and poet, is the central figure. Through his experiences the reader witnesses the outbreak and the consequences of 
the Revolution: army revolts, irrational killings, starvation, epidemics, Party inquisition. In an epic train ride from Moscow to the Ural Mountains—a journey that takes weeks—Zhivago
 transports his family to what he hopes is shelter in obscurity. Actually, he lands them all in the chaos and cruelty of strife between Whites and Reds. These are not times for a 
domestic idyll or emotional bliss, and Zhivago sees man’s simplest aspirations to a normal human life hopelessly frustrated.
   Pasternak’s superbly evocative style is equal to the
 grandeur of his theme. “Storm” is the recurring key word of his book—the storm of war, of revolution, of human passions, of nature. With awe and terror he recreates modern history’s 
most titanic effort to bring forth a new world from a deliberately created chaos.
   The book is crowded with scenes and people of unforgettable impact: the eeriness of partisan camps 
in the ice and snow of Siberia’s primeval forests; the trains crowded with deportees; apartment houses overrun by rats; cities starving and freezing; villages burned and depopulated. 
And woven into this background is the story of Zhivago’s love for tender and beautiful Lara, constantly pursued, found, and lost again, the human symbol of life’s sweetness and joy.


THIS IS A REPRINT OF THE HARDCOVER EDITION
PUBLISHED BY PANTHEON BOOKS, INC.

BORIS PASTERNAK belonged to a generation that gave Russia its twentieth-century poets—Blok, Esenin, and 
Mayakovsky. He was born in Moscow in 1890, the eldest son of Leonid Pasternak, the painter, and Rosa Kaufman Pasternak, the musician. Early in life he became interested in music and 
the study of composition, but later abandoned music for philosophy and went to study with Professor Cohen in Marburg, Germany. During the First World War he returned to Russia and 
worked in a factory in the Ural Mountains; after the Revolution he was employed in the library of the Commissariat for Education. He joined avant-garde poetry groups, experimenting 
in new techniques of rhythm and composition. His poems, most of which appeared between 1917 and 1932, gave him an eminent and unique position in the world of letters. In 1932, an 
autobiographical poem, Spectorsky, gave rise to violent accusations of “anti-sociability.” From 1933 on, Pasternak lived a retired life, devoting himself mainly to translations of 
foreign poets. He also translated a number of Shakespeare’s plays; his versions are considered the most outstanding and popular in the Russian language.
   
Doctor Zhivago was the first
 Original work published by Pasternak after twenty-five years of silence. It was announced for publication in Russia in 1954 but subsequently withdrawn. In the meantime an Italian 
edition was already on press and it could not be withheld from publication. Thus it happened that one of the most important works of contemporary Russian literature appeared first in 
translation. Doctor Zhivago has still not appeared in Russia, but has been published in Arabic, Danish, Dutch, Finnish, French, German, Hebrew, Italian, Norwegian, Portuguese, Russian
 (University of Michigan Press), Spanish, and Swedish.
   In October of 1958, one month after the American publication of this novel, Boris Pasternak was awarded The Nobel Prize for 
Literature.
   Mr. Pasternak died in his sleep on May 30, 1960 at his home in Peredelkino, a writer’s colony about twenty miles outside of Moscow.
   

BORIS PASTERNAK


Doctor
Zhivago



A SIGNET
 BOOK
Published by THE NEW AMERICAN LIBRARY
   

© 1957 Giangiacomo Feltrinelli Editore, Milano, Italy

© 1958 in the English translation
Wm. Collins Sons & Co., Ltd., London

© 1958 in 
authorized revisions to the English translation
by Pantheon Books, Inc., New York, New York.

All rights reserved. No part of this book may be
reproduced without permission. For information 
address
Pantheon Books, Inc., 22 East 51st Street,
New York, New York 10022.

This is an authorized reprint of a hardcover edition
published by Pantheon Books, Inc.

TWENTY-FIRST 
PRINTING

Translated from the Russian by Max Hayward and
Manya Harari; “The Poems of Yurii Zhivago,”
translated by Bernard Guilbert Guerney.

SIGNET TRADEMARK REG. U.S. PAT. OFF.
AND FOREIGN 
COUNTRIES
REGISTERED TRADEMARK—MARCA REGISTRADA
HECHO EN CHICAGO, U.S.A.

SIGNET BOOKS are published by
The New American Library, Inc.,
1301 Avenue of the Americas,
New York, New York 10019


PRINTED IN THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

CONTENTS
CONTENTS	5
PART ONE	7
CHAPTER ONE	7
CHAPTER TWO	22
CHAPTER THREE	57
CHAPTER FOUR	80
PART TWO	112
CHAPTER FIVE	113
CHAPTER SIX
