said Martinez.
"Let go that suit! " corrected Gómez.
Toro Ruiz, tap-dancing Vamenos, leered at these intruders.
Villanazul stepped up shyly.
Villanazul smiled. "Don't hit him. Hit me."
Toro 
Ruiz hit Villanazul smack on the nose.
Villananul, holding his nose, tears stinging his eyes, wandered off.
Page 13
Bradbury, Ray - WONDERFUL ICECREAM SUIT.txt
Gómez grabbed one of Toro Ruiz's
 arms, Martinez the other.
"Drop him, let go, cabrón, coyote, vaca! "
Toro Ruiz twisted the ice cream suit material until all six men screamed in mortal
agony. Grunting, sweating, Toro Ruiz
 dislodged as many as climbed on. He was winding
up to hit Vamenos when Villanazul wandered back, eyes streaming.
"Don't hit him. Hit me!"
As Toro Ruiz hit Villanazul on the nose, a chair
 crashed on Toro's head.
"Ai! " said Gómez.
Toro Ruiz swayed, blinking, debating whether to fall. He began to drag Vamenos with
him.
"Let go!" cried Gómez. "Let go!"
One by one, with great 
care, Toro Ruiz's banana-like fingers let loose of the suit.
A moment later he was ruins at their feet.
"Compadres, this way!"
They ran Vamenos outside and set him down where he freed himself
 of their hands with
injured dignity.
"Okay, okay. My time ain't up. I still got two minutes and, let's see - ten
seconds."
"What!" said everybody.
"Vamenos," said Gómez, "you let a Guadalajara
 cow climb on you, you pick fights, you
smoke, you drink, you eat tacos, and now you have the nerve to say your time ain't
up?"
"I got two minutes and one second left!"
"Hey, Vamenos, you sure look sharp!" Distantly, a woman's voice called from across
the street.
Vamenos smiled and buttoned the coat.
"It's Ramona Alvarez! Ramona, wait!" Vamenos stepped off the curb.
"Vamenos," pleaded Gómez. "What can you do in one minute and" - he checked his
watch - "forty seconds!"
"Watch! Hey, Ramona!"
Vamenos loped.
"Vamenos, look out!"
Vamenos, surprised, whirled, saw a car, heard the shriek of brakes.
"No," said all five men on the sidewalk.
Martinez heard the impact and flinched. His head moved up. It looks like white
laundry, he thought, flying through the air. His head came down.
Now he heard himself and each of the men make a different sound. Some swallowed too
much air. Some let it out. Some choked. Some groaned. Some cried aloud for justice.
Page 14
Bradbury, Ray - WONDERFUL ICECREAM SUIT.txt
Some covered their faces. Martinez felt his own fist pounding his heart in agony. He
couid not move his feet.
"I don't want to live," said Gómez quietly. "Kill me, someone."
Then, shuffling, Martinez looked down
 and told his feet to walk, stagger, follow one
after the other. He collided with other men. Now they were trying to run. They ran
at last and somehow crossed a street like a deep river 
through which they could only
wade, to look down at Vamenos.
"Vamenos!" said Martinez. "You're alive!"
Strewn on his back, mouth open, eyes squeezed tight, tight, Vamenos motioned his
head
 back and forth, back and forth, moaning.
"Tell me, tell me, oh, tell me, tell me."
"Tell you what, Vamenos?"
Vamenos clenched his fists, ground his teeth.
"The suit, what have I done to
 the suit, the suit, the suit!"
The men crouched lower.
"Vamenos, it's . . . why, it's okay! "
"You lie!" said Vamenos. "It's torn, it must be, it must be, it's torn, all around,
underneath?
 "
"No." Martinez knelt and touched here and there. "Vamenos, all around, underneath
even, it's okay!"
Vamenos opened his eyes to let the tears run free at last. "A miracle," he sobbed.
"
Praise the saints!" He quieted at last "The car?"
"Hit and run." Gómez suddenly remembered and g!ared at the empty street. "It's good
he didn't stop. We'd have-"
Everyone listened.
Distantly
 a siren walled.
"Someone phoned for an ambulance."
"Quick!" said Vamenos, eyes rolling. "Set me up! Take off our coat!"
"Vamenos-"
"Shut up, idiots!" cried Vamenos. "The coat, that's 
it! Now, the pants, the pants,
quick, quick, peónes! Those doctors! You seen movies? They rip the pants with razors
to get them off! They don't care! They're maniacs! Ah, God, quick,
 quick!"
The siren screamed.
The men, panicking, all handled Vamenos at once.
"Right leg, easy, hurry, cows! Good! Left leg, now, left, you hear, there, easy,
easy! Ow, God! Quick! Ma
rtinez, your pants, take them off!"
"What?" Martinez froze.
The siren shrieked.
Page 15
Bradbury, Ray - WONDERFUL ICECREAM SUIT.txt
"Fool!" wailed Vamenos. "All is lost! Your pants! Giv
e me!"
Martinez jerked at his belt buckle.
"Close in, make a circle!"
Dark pants, light pants flourished on the air.
"Quick, here come the maniacs with the razors! Right leg on, left l
