                               
  "But-"                                                                    
  "Yes?"                                                               
     
  "Nothing, sir." I went away, not sure that I could explain to             
Atticus what was on my mind, not sure that I could clarify what was        
 
only a feeling. Perhaps Jem could provide the answer. Jem understood        
school things better than Atticus.                                          
 
 Jem was worn out from a day's water-carrying. There were at least         
twelve banana peels on the floor by his bed, surrounding an empty milk      

bottle. "Whatcha stuffin' for?" I asked.                                    
  "Coach says if I can gain twenty-five pounds by year after next I         

can play," he said. "This is the quickest way."                             
  "If you don't throw it all up. Jem," I said, "I wanta ask you             
somethin'."                                                                                              
  The street lights were fuzzy from the fine rain that was falling. As      
I made my way home, I felt very old, but when I looked at the tip of        
my nose I could see fine misty beads, but looking cross-eyed made me        
dizzy so I quit. As I made my way home, I thought what a thing to tell      
Jem tomorrow. He'd be so mad he missed it he wouldn't speak to me           
for days. As I made my way home, I thought Jem and I would get grown        
but there wasn't much else left for us to learn, except possibly            
algebra.                                                                    
  I ran up the steps and into the house. Aunt Alexandra had gone to         
bed, and Atticus's room was dark. I would see if Jem might be          
     
reviving. Atticus was in Jem's room, sitting by his bed. He was             
reading a book.                                                             
  "Is Jem awake yet?"                                                       
  "Sleeping peacefully. He won't be awake until morning."                   
  "Oh. Are you sittin' up with him?"                                        
  "Just for an hour or so. Go to bed, Scout. You've had a long day."        
  "Well, I think I'll stay with you for a while."                           
  "Suit yourself," said Atticus. It must have been after midnight, and      
I was puzzled by his amiable acquiescence. He was shrewder than I,          
however: the moment I sat down I began to feel sleepy.                      
  "Whatcha readin'?" I asked.                                               
  Atticus turned the book over. "Something of Jem's. Called  The            
Gray Ghost."                                                                
  I was suddenly awake. "Why'd you get that one?"                           
  "Honey, I don't know. Just picked it up. One of the few things I          
haven't read," he said pointedly.   
                                        
  "Read it out loud, please, Atticus. It's real scary."                     
  "No," he said. "You've had enough scaring for a while.
 This is too-"      
  "Atticus, I wasn't scared."                                               
  He raised his eyebrows, and I protested: "Leastways not till I            

started telling Mr. Tate about it. Jem wasn't scared. Asked him and he      
said he wasn't. Besides, nothin's real scary except in books."              
  Atticus opened his
 mouth to say something, but shut it again. He          
took his thumb from the middle of the book and turned back to the           
first page. I moved over and leaned my
 head against his knee.               
"H'rm," he said.  "The Gray Ghost,  by Seckatary Hawkins. Chapter           
One..."                                                                     
  I willed myself to stay awake, but the rain was so soft and the room      
was so warm and his voice was so deep and his knee was so snug that         
I slept.                                                                    
  Seconds later, it seemed, his shoe was gently nudging my ribs. He         
lifted me to my feet and walked me to my room. "Heard every word you        
said," I muttered. "...wasn't sleep at all, 's about a ship an'             
Three-Fingered Fred 'n' Stoner's Boy...."                                   
  He unhooked my overalls, leaned me against him, and pulled them off.      
He held me up with one hand and reached for my pajamas with the other.      
  "Yeah, an' they all thought it was Stoner's Boy messin' up their          
clubhouse an' throwin' ink all over it an'..."                              
  He guided me to the bed and sat me down. He lifted my legs and put        
me under the cover.                                                         
 
 "An' they chased him 'n' never could catch him 'cause they didn't         
know what he looked like, an' Atticus, when they finally saw him,          
 
why he hadn't done any of those things... Atticus, he was real              
nice...."                                                                  
 
  His hands were under my chin, pulling up the cover, tucking it            
around me.                                                                  

  "Most people are, Scout, when you finally see them."                      
  He turned out the light and went into Jem's room. He would be           
  
there all night, and he would be there when Jem waked up in the             
morning.                                                                    
                                                                           
                                                                           
                               THE END                                      
                                                                            

