ment than any
national state, precisely because of the greater political problems which had to
be solved before a stable community could be built up out of groups of
different
 nationality.

Much remains to be done, but one at least of Herzl's aims has already been
realized: its task in Palestine has given the Jewish people an astonishing degree
of 
solidarity and the optimism without which no organism can lead a healthy
life.

Anything we may do for the common purpose is done not merely for our
brothers in Palestine, but
 for the well-being and honour of the whole Jewish
people.

II

We are assembled to-day for the purpose of calling to mind our age-old
community, its destiny, and its problems. 
It is a community of moral tradition,
which has always shown its strength and vitality in times of stress. In all ages it
has produced men who embodied the conscience of the
 Western world,
defenders of human dignity and justice.

So long as we ourselves care about this community it will continue to exist to
the benefit of mankind, in spite of the
 fact that it possesses no self-contained
organization. A decade or two ago a group of far-sighted men, among whom
Herzl of immortal memory stood out above the rest, came to
 the conclusion
that we needed a spiritual centre in crder to preserve our sense of solidarity in
difficult times. Thus arose the idea of Zionism and the work of settlement 
in
Palestine, the successful realization of which we have been permitted to
witness, at least in its highly promising beginnings.

I have had the privilege of seeing, to my great
 joy and satisfaction, how much
this achievement has contributed to the recovery of the Jewish people, which
is exposed, as a minority among the nations, not merely to external 
dangers,
but also to internal ones of a psychological nature.

The crisis which the work of construction has had to face in the last few years
has lain heavy upon us and is not yet 
completely surmounted. But the most
recent reports show that the world, and especially the British Government, is
disposed to recognize the great things which lie behind our struggle 
for the
Zionist ideal. Let us at this moment remember with gratitude our leader
Weizmann, whose zeal and circumspection have helped the good cause to
success.

The difficulties we have
 been through have also brought some good in their
train. They have shown us once more how strong the bond is which unites the
Jews of all countries in a common destiny. The crisis
 has also purified our
attitude to the question of Palestine, purged it of the dross of nationalism. It
has been clearly proclaimed that we are not seeking to create a political
society,
 but that our aim is, in accordance with the old tradition of Jewry, a
cultural one in the widest sense of the word. That being so, it is for us to solve
the problem of living side by
 side with our brother the Arab in an open,
generous, and worthy manner. We have here an opportunity of showing what
we have learnt in the thousands of years of our martyrdom. 
If we choose the
right path we shall succeed and give the rest of the world a fine example.

Whatever we do for Palestine we do it for the honour and well-being of the
whole Jewish 
people.

III

I am delighted to have the opportunity of addressing a few words to the youth
of this country which is faithful to the common aims of Jewry. Do not be
discouraged by the
 difficulties which confront us in Palestine. Such things
serve to test the will to live of our community.

Certain proceedings and pronouncements of the English administration 
have
been justly criticized. We must not, however, leave it at that but learn by
experience.

We need to pay great attention to our relations with the Arabs. By cultivating
these 
carefully we shall be able in future to prevent things from becoming so
dangerously strained that people can take advantage of them to provoke acts
of hostility. This goal is
 perfectly within our reach, because our work of
construction has been, and must continue to be, carried out in such a manner
as to serve the real interests of the Arab population 
also.

In this way we shall be able to avoid getting ourselves quite so often into the
position, disagreeable for Jews and Arabs alike, of having to call in the
mandatory Power as
 arbitrator. We shall thereby be following not merely the
dictates of Providence but also our traditions, which alone give the Jewish
community meaning and stability.

For that 
community is not, and must never become, a political one; this is the
only permanent source whence it can draw new strength and the only ground
on which its existence can be
 justified.

IV

For the last two thousand years the common property of the Jewish people
has consisted entirely of its past. Scattered over the wide world, our nation
possessed 
nothing in common except its carefully guarded tradition. Individual
Jews no doubt produced great work, but it seemed as if the Jewish people as
a whole had not the strength 
left for great collective achievements.

Now all that is changed. History has set us a great and noble task in the shape
of active cooperation in the building up of Palestine.
 Eminent members of our
race are already at work with all their might on the realization of this aim. The
opportunity is presented to us of setting up centres of civilization 
which the
whole Jewish people can regard as its work. We nurse the hope of erecting in
Palestine a home of our own national culture which shall help to awaken the
near East to
