 Doors in the Wall
     are labeled Dope, and their unauthorized takers are Fiends.
         We now spend a good deal more on drink and smoke than we spend
     on education.
 This, of course, is not surprising. The urge to
     escape from selfhood and the environment is in almost everyone
     almost all the time. The urge to do something for
 the young is
     strong only in parents, and in them only for the few years during
     which their children go to school. Equally unsurprising is the
     current attitude
 towards drink and smoke. In spite of the growing
     army of hopeless alcoholics, in spite of the hundreds of thousands
     of persons annually maimed or killed by drunken 
drivers, popular
     comedians still crack jokes about alcohol and its addicts. And in
     spite of the evidence linking cigarettes with lung cancer,
     practically everybody
 regards tobacco smoking as being hardly less
     normal and natural than eating. From the point of view of the
     rationalist utilitarian this may seem odd. For the historian,
 it
     is exactly what you would expect. A firm conviction of the
     material reality of Hell never prevented medieval Christians from
     doing what their ambition, lust or
 covetousness suggested. Lung
     cancer, traffic accidents and the millions of miserable and
     misery-creating alcoholics are facts even more certain than was,
     
in Dante's day, the fact of the Inferno. But all such facts are
     remote and unsubstantial compared with the near, felt fact of a
     craving, here and now, for release or
 sedation, for a drink or a
     smoke.
         Ours is the age, among other things, of the automobile and of
     rocketing population. Alcohol is incompatible with safety on the
  
   roads, and its production, like that of tobacco, condemns to
     virtual sterility many millions of acres of the most fertile soil.
     The problems raised by alcohol and tobacco 
cannot, it goes without
     saying, be solved by prohibition. The universal and ever-present
     urge to self-transcendence is not to be abolished by slamming the
    
 currently popular Doors in the Wall. The only reasonable policy is
     to open other, better doors in the hope of inducing men and women
     to exchange their old bad habits
 for new and less harmful ones.
     Some of these other, better doors will be social and technological
     in nature, others religious or psychological, others dietetic,
   
  educational, athletic. But the need for frequent chemical
     vacations from intolerable selfhood and repulsive surroundings
     will undoubtedly remain. What is needed is
 a new drug which will
     relieve and console our suffering species without doing more harm
     in the long run than it does good in the short. Such a drug must
     
be potent in minute doses and synthesizable. If it does not
     possess these qualities, its production, like that of wine, beer,
     spirits and tobacco will interfere
 with the raising of
     indispensable food and fibers. It must be less toxic than opium or
     cocaine, less likely to produce undesirable social consequences
   
  than alcohol or the barbiturates, less inimical to heart and lungs
     than the tars and nicotine of cigarettes. And, on the positive
     side, it should produce changes 
in consciousness more interesting,
     more intrinsically valuable than mere sedation or dreaminess,
     delusions of omnipotence or release from inhibition.
       
  To most people, mescalin is almost completely innocuous.
     Unlike alcohol, it does not drive the taker into the kind of
     uninhibited action which results in 
brawls, crimes of violence and
     traffic accidents. A man under the influence of mescalin quietly
     minds his own business. Moreover, the business he minds is an
    
 experience of the most enlightening kind, which does not have to
     be paid for (and this is surely important) by a compensatory
     hangover. Of the long-range consequences
 of regular mescalin
     taking we know very little. The Indians who consume peyote buttons
     do not seem to be physically or morally degraded by the habit.
     However, the
 available evidence is still scarce and sketchy.*
     Although obviously superior to cocaine, opium, alcohol and
     tobacco, mescalin is not yet the ideal drug. Along with the
 
    happily transfigured majority of mescalin takers there is a
     minority that finds in the drug only hell or purgatory. Moreover,
     for a drug that is to be used, like 
alcohol, for general
     consumption, its effects last for an inconveniently long time. But
     chemistry and physiology are capable nowadays of practically
     anything. If
 the psychologists and sociologists will define the
     ideal, the neurologists and pharmacologists can be relied upon to
     discover the means whereby that ideal can be realized 
or at least
     (for perhaps this kind of ideal can never, in the very nature of
     things, be fully realized) more nearly approached than in the
     wine-bibbing past, the 
whisky-drinking, marijuana-smoking and
     barbiturate-swallowing present.
         The urge to transcend self-conscious selfhood is, as I have
     said, a principal appetite of the soul. 
When, for whatever reason,
     men and women fail to transcend themselves by means of worship,
     good works and spiritual exercises, they are apt to resort to
     religion's chemical